---
layout: default
title: New Features/Updates
nav_order: 6
description: "An update on new features being added to the Custom Widgets Module."
permalink: /docs/new-features
has_children: true
---


# What is new?
## Version 0.7.3:
### Json stylesheet 'hot reload':
Changes made to `Json stylesheet` files will be reloaded, no need to restart your app, just set `LiveCompileQss` to `true`

```python
self.liveCompileQss = True
```

### Prevent new icons generation
You can prevent the new/missing icons from being generated by 

- Using Json file, set `"CheckForMissingicons"` to `false`
```json
{
	"LiveCompileQss": true,
	"ShowLogs": false,
    "CheckForMissingicons": false,
    "QSettings": [
        {
```

- From python file
```python
self.checkForMissingicons = True #generate new icons
# OR
self.checkForMissingicons = False # do not generate new icons
```
 
### New widgets
Added new custom widgets: `QDraggableWidget` and `QCustomModals`.

## Version 0.7.3:
### Qss stylesheet 'hot reload':
All changes made to your ``qss\scss\defaultStyle.scss`` style sheet file will be recompiled and automatically applied to your app GUI, **no need to restart the app when styling your GUI**

- You can apply this feature from your JSon style by adding ``LiveCompileQss: true,``:

    ```json
    "ShowLogs": true,
    "LiveCompileQss": true,
    "QMainWindow": [
        {
    ```

- you can also do this from your python file:
    ```python
    self.liveCompileQss = True #self = mainwindow 
    ```


## Version 0.6.9:
1. **New project structure:**

To use version 0.6.9 or later, it's best to stick to the project structure outlined below. Alternatively, you can use the ``ProjectMake or project wizard`` tool, which will set up your project with the same structure automatically.
```cmd
project_name/
│
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── main.py
│
├── ui/
│   ├── main_window.ui
│   └── ...
│
├── src/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── utils.py
│   ├── helper_functions.py
│   └── ui_main_window.py  # Automatically generated from main_window.ui
│
├── qss/
│   ├── scss/
│   │   ├── style.scss
│   │   └── ...
│   │
│   └── icons/
│       ├── icon1.png
│       └── ...
│
├── logs/
│   └── custom_widgets.log
│
├── json_styles/
│   ├── style.json
│   └── ...
│
└── generated-files/
    ├── new_files # Automatically generated by Custom Widgets
    └── ...


```

**Description:**

- **README.md:** Description of the project.
- **requirements.txt:** List of Python dependencies required for the project.
- **main.py:** Entry point of the application.
- **ui/:** Directory containing UI-related files.
    - **main_window.ui:** Main window layout file.
    - Other UI-related files.
- **src/:** Source code directory.
    - **_\_init__.py:** Package initialization file.
    - **utils.py:** Utility functions.
    - **helper_functions.py:** Additional helper functions.
    - **ui_main_window.py:** Automatically generated Python code from main_window.ui.
- **qss/:** Directory for Qt Style Sheets (QSS) and icons.
    - **scss/:** SCSS files for styling.
    - **icons/:** Icon images.
- **logs/:** Directory for log files.
    - **custom_widgets.log:** Log file.
- **json_styles/:** Directory for JSON style files.
-   **style.json:** Example JSON style file.
- **generated-files/:** Directory for files auto-generated by the custom widgets module.
    - Example generated files include **UI's** and **JSon** files

This structure allows for automatic conversion of UI files to Python code and placement within the src folder, simplifying the development process for users.

2. **Quick theme engine**.
- Applies new icons on theme change without need to restart your app.
- Faster theme/icons switching.
- The custom widgets module comes with its own icon sets:
    - Feather
    - FontAwesome
    - and Google material design icons.

3. **New custom widgets `logs`.**
- Log file is located inside the "Logs" folder.

4. **Quick `CMD/Terminal` commands:**
- To launch `ProjectMaker / project wizard`, run
```cmd
Custom_Widgets --create-project
```
This will create a `Qt-python` project inside your empty folder, ready to run.
- Easy to convert UI files to py. The cutom widgets `Theme Engine` eliminated the need for `QRC` to `python` file conversion, therefore to generate `UI-Python` files without any errors, use
```cmd
Custom_Widgets --convert-ui ui-path --qt-library your-lib
```
- Monitor changes made to UI file and generate new .py file and other necessary files for the custom widgets
```cmd
Custom_Widgets --monitor-ui ui-path --qt-library your-lib
```
Where: `ui-path` is the UI file path or folder containing UI files.
`your-lib` is `PySide6`, `PySide2`, `PyQt5` or `PyQt6`

> [Updating old GUI app to work with the current Custom Widgets module update](https://khamisikibet.github.io/Docs-QT-PyQt-PySide-Custom-Widgets/docs/other-functions/Updating-old-GUI-app-to-work-with-the%20current-Custom-Widgets-module-update)

## Version 0.6.2:
- Added support for loading multiple ``JSON Stylesheets``
    By default, the json file named ``style.json`` will be loaded, so no need to specify. The file must me inside the root directory of your project, ``json`` directory, or ``jsonstyles`` directory inside your project folder for it to be automatically loaded.
    
    If you have multiple JSON stylesheet files, then you can apply them to your GUI like this:
    ```python
        ########################################################################
        # APPLY JSON STYLESHEET
        ########################################################################
        # self = QMainWindow class
        # self.ui = Ui_MainWindow / user interface class
        loadJsonStyle(self, self.ui, jsonFiles = {
            "mystyle.json",
            "mydirectory/myJsonStyle.json"
            })
        ########################################################################
    ```
    This feature is helpful especially when you have multiple windows files that will share only some parts of the stylesheet shuch app app title, settings etc.
    
- Toggle logs:
    You can now switch app logs on or off.
    This can be done from a python file:
    ```python
    # Show Logs
    self.showCustomWidgetsLogs = True
    ```
    ```python
    # Hide Logs
    self.showCustomWidgetsLogs = False
    ```
    From the JSON file:
    ```json
    {
    "ShowLogs": true,
    ```
    ```json
    {
    "ShowLogs": false,
    ```

## Version 0.6.8:
- Added full support for `pyside6`